[Workers AI]Whisper Tutorial (#21715)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers-ai/guides/tutorials/build-a-workers-ai-whisper-with-chunking.mdx

Create a new project named `whisper-tutorial` by running:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"whisper-tutorial"}
/>

Running `npm create cloudflare@latest` will prompt you to install the [`create-cloudflare` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-cloudflare), and lead you through setup. C3 will also install [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/), the Cloudflare Developer Platform CLI.

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Worker only",
		lang: "TypeScript",
	}}
/>

This will create a new `whisper-tutorial` directory. Your new `whisper-tutorial` directory will include:

- A `"Hello World"` [Worker](/workers/get-started/guide/#3-write-code) at `src/index.ts`.
- A [`wrangler.jsonc`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/) configuration file.

Go to your application directory:

```sh
cd whisper-tutorial
```

## 2. Connect your Worker to Workers AI

You must create an AI binding for your Worker to connect to Workers AI. [Bindings](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/) allow your Workers to interact with resources, like Workers AI, on the Cloudflare Developer Platform.

> To bind Workers AI to your Worker, add the following to the end of your Wrangler file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To bind Workers AI to your Worker, add the following to the end of your `wrangler.toml` file:
```

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[ai]
binding = "AI"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Your binding is [available in your Worker code](/workers/reference/migrate-to-module-workers/#bindings-in-es-modules-format) on [`env.AI`](/workers/runtime-apis/handlers/fetch/).

## 3. Configure Wrangler

In your wrangler file, add or update the following settings to enable Node.js APIs and polyfills (with a compatibility date of 2024‑09‑23 or later):

<WranglerConfig>

```toml title="wrangler.toml"
compatibility_flags = [ "nodejs_compat" ]
compatibility_date = "2024-09-23"
```

</WranglerConfig>

## 4. Handle large audio files with chunking

Replace the contents of your `src/index.ts` file with the following integrated code. This sample demonstrates how to:

(1) Extract an audio file URL from the query parameters.

(2) Fetch the audio file while explicitly following redirects.

> (3) Split the audio file into smaller chunks (such as, 1MB chunks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(3) Split the audio file into smaller chunks (such as, 1 MB chunks).
```
